feat: Updated SS and microservices deployment docs (#13083)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/setup/install/helm/install-microservices/_index.md

---
title: Install the microservice Helm chart 
menuTitle: Install microservice Loki
description: Installing Loki in microservice (distributed) mode using the Helm chart.
aliases:
  - ../../../installation/helm/microservice/

>   - ../../../installation/helm/install-microservice/

Reviewer: Since this page has never existed before, I doesn't need aliases.  Those are for creating redirects when an existing page has moved or been renamed.

weight: 300
keywords: 
---

# Install the microservice Helm chart
<!-- vale Grafana.Quotes = NO -->

> <!-- vale Grafana.Quotes = YES -->

Reviewer: These are only necessary if you're skipping a Vale rule.  Since there's nothing between the comments, you're not skipping a rule and can remove these.

This Helm Chart deploys Grafana Loki on Kubernetes.

> This chart configures Loki to run Loki in [microservice / distributed mode]({{< relref "../../../../get-started/deployment-modes#microservices-mode" >}}), highly available architecture designed to work with AWS S3 object storage. 

Reviewer: I don't think microservices mode is specific to any particular/specific object storage. Maybe reword that this chart is configured for AWS S3 by default, but can easily be edited for GCS and Azure?

> The default Helm chart deploys the following components:

Reviewer: Whenever you have a list of items, unless there's a really good reason not to, you should alphabetize the list.

- **Ingester component** (3 replicas): Handles ingestion of data.
- **Querier component** (3 replicas, maxUnavailable: 2): Processes queries. Up to 2 replicas can be unavailable during updates.
- **QueryFrontend component** (2 replicas, maxUnavailable: 1): Manages frontend queries. Up to 1 replica can be unavailable during updates.
- **QueryScheduler component** (2 replicas): Schedules queries.
- **Distributor component** (3 replicas, maxUnavailable: 2): Distributes incoming requests. Up to 2 replicas can be unavailable during updates.
- **Compactor component** (1 replica): Compacts and processes stored data.
- **IndexGateway component** (2 replicas, maxUnavailable: 1): Handles indexing. Up to 1 replica can be unavailable during updates.

> <!--TODO - Update when meta-monitoring chart releases-->

Reviewer: FYI - It has been released, just not publicized yet.

https://github.com/grafana/meta-monitoring-chart/releases

Author: This is really cool!! I noticed we had a monitoring and alerting section in deployments. I have linked to that for now. I can create a new PR with updated instructions for that section of the docs with the repo instructions

It is not recommended to run microservices mode with `filesystem` storage.

**Prerequisites**

- Helm 3 or above. See [Installing Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).
- A running Kubernetes cluster.

> - (Optional) A Memcached deployment for better query performance. For information on configuring Memcached, refer to [caching section]({{< relref "../../../../operations/caching" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (Optional) A Memcached deployment for better query performance. For information on configuring Memcached, refer to the [caching section](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/caching/).
```

          replicas: 3
          maxUnavailable: 2
        queryFrontend:
          replicas: 2
          maxUnavailable: 1
        queryScheduler:
          replicas: 2
        distributor:
          replicas: 3
          maxUnavailable: 2
        compactor:
          replicas: 1
        indexGateway:
          replicas: 2
          maxUnavailable: 1

        bloomCompactor:
          replicas: 0
        bloomGateway:
          replicas: 0

        # Enable minio for storage
        minio:
          enabled: true

        # Zero out replica counts of other deployment modes
        backend:
          replicas: 0
        read:
          replicas: 0
        write:
          replicas: 0

        singleBinary:
          replicas: 0 
     ```

     To configure other storage providers, refer to the [Helm Chart Reference]({{< relref "../reference" >}}).

1. Install or upgrade the Loki deployment.
     - To install:
        ```bash
       helm install --values values.yaml loki grafana/loki
       ```
    - To upgrade:
       ```bash
       helm upgrade --values values.yaml loki grafana/loki
       ```
       

1. Verify that Loki is running:
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods -n loki

>     ```

Reviewer: I think it's helpful to add example output from this command so that users know what pods they should expect to see.
